Virtualization : process of creating the virtual machines
Types of virtualization:Server level,Network level,Application level,Storage level,Desktop virtualization

Hypervisor :

Docker:
-> Containerization tool that helps dev+ops teams using container virtualization technology
-> set of platform 
-> Containers are created from the read only templates called "Image" whereas Images can be built from
the Docker File.

ARCHITECTURE: 


Docker Client: take instructions from the user
Docker Engine: build,ship,run and manage the containers.
Docker Hub: manage your upload your application
Docker Registery: collection of docker images which is responsible for holding the images.
Docker Image: nothing but read only which is used to create the docker containers or use the existing
docker containers.
Docker Daemon: it is nothing but a service and it;s a part of your docker engine.
Docker Container: running state instance of an image and hold application dependencies

To start Docker service --> service docker start
To check the Docker statud--> service docker status(it will shows status has active)

to list all the containers --> docker ps -a
to show last created container --> docker ps -f

que)If we Delete the container by mistake then how we can recover it ?
--> No,

Docker File: https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/

FROM - tells about base image
MAINTAINER - author who maintains our image
LABEL - 













AMAZON ECR(Elastic Container Registry)  AND ECS(Elastic Container Service) :

ECR(Elastic Container Registry) - Fully managed service to store, manage and deploy docker container 
images.
-> Integrated with AWS ECS and AWS EKS.

COMPONENTS:

Registry: It is a private registry inorder to store the pictures.
Authorization Token: 
Repository: where 

Amazon ECR WORKFLOW:
step-1: Create a Docker file
step-2: Build an Docker image
step-3: *push the image to ECR
step-4: pull to run containers
step-5: ECS, EKS, Cloud, On-premise

ECS(Elastic Container Service): 

WORKFLOW:
step-1: Service - Task definition, service definition
step-2: schedule
step-3: AWS ECS
step-4: Place task - Fargata or EC2

AWS ECS Cluster: Logical group of services.

